## About Us
We are a group of enthusiastic geeks currently studying in the "German University in Cairo" working toward a degree in Computer Science and Engineering major. We have special interest in Security, Embedded Systems and Web Application Technologies.

## About the project
The Project was designed as a course requirement as part of the “Concepts Of Programming Languages” course. The aim was to get hands-on the logic programming concepts using Prolog language . Starting by the simplest concepts, going to using predefined and complex predicates to achieve a certain target. The process started by getting a general description along with some helper functions ideas to help kicking off in the project (A copy of the project description is attached to this project) . The project target was to create a predicate that would solve/checks correctness of a Helsinki based puzzle. A thorough description of a  Helsinki puzzle is can be found in the project description file. The approach of the team was a divide conquer approach. We identified sub goals , coded the predicates to achieve them and built upon them till we utterly reached the main goal which is solving the puzzle. We arrived at a version good enough to solve 3*3 or 4*4 puzzles but were not efficient enough for bigger puzzles. We then optimized the code to achieve up to 8*8 puzzles in matter of seconds. This effectively shows the power of logical programming in solving puzzles in particular. The project was completed and a copy of the code is attached. The project helped the whole team enhance their programming skills in prolog and their divide and conquer approach towards problems in general.

### Notes

While this project solves the whole puzzle and is efficient enough. It was team choice to re-implement some of the already pre-defined predicates to get more practice in prolog. Also it is highly recommended that such a computationally intensive task is done using clpfd library in prolog. It was not used here since it’s use was not allowed in this project but it is highly recommended that implementation is done with it. Finally, the team was able to attain a grade of A+ in the project reflecting the correctness and efficiency of the presented solution (code).
